For this experiment the modulation and demodulation of the signal were all done offline in GNU octave, there were two main programs used, one to simulate the transmitting end and one to simulate the receiving end. From these codes files were saved and sent to the test bed to act as the transmission channel, through the serial channel and a piece of python code.
The ofdm signal used included no cyclic prefixing. The same code was used for different types of signal such as more carrier frequencies, or different bandwidths by adjusting the variables. All of the signals used the same 10000 bit random bit file, however on the receiving end only the first 1000(or nearest possible number above) were read. The bits were converted into nrz bits. The modulation used a 4 QAM modulation scheme; this was done by taking two bits from the random bit file, multiplying one by j, and adding them together. This created a 4 QAM symbol. A certain number of these symbols were created according to the number of subcarriers to be used in the ofdm signal. DCO-OFDM specifically was used, thus the hermitian symmetry was applied as [0 s0 … sn 0 sn* … s0*] with s being the array of 4 QAM symbols, and s* being the conjugate of each of those symbols. This created the buckets that the ifft modulated into a real valued time domain signal. A raised cousin filter was used to apply a pulse shape. In this project the signal was generated by turning shutters off and on, so the signal was quantized to 37 total levels(0 shutters on, 1 shutter on, to 36 shutters on). Because the shutters were controlled by integer levels, the ofdm signal was normalized between 0 and 36, then each sample was rounded to the nearest integer value. This quantized signal was exported to a .mat file and sent to the serial port using the python code.
On the receiving end the signal was collected on an oscilloscope, which output a .isf file. The .isf was read into a variable for offline demodulation. The random bits were read from the same random bit file, to compare and determine the bit error rate. Variables needed for the demodulation are entered by hand, such as sampling rate, OFDM symbol period, adn number of carriers. The starting sample of the signal is determined manually by checking which symbol had the lowest BER. A single OFDM symbol was isolated from the signal, then the sample points of the OFDM symbol, which are evenly spaced, are collected, and are placed into bins. An fft is then applied to these points which collects the original data with the hermitian symmetry. This allows for the received constellation to be constructed, the determination boundaries are chosen and the data is converted to bits. The bits are compared to the original data and the BER is determined.
